This is the flow for my project:A Blockchain- Based Solution for Death Certificate Authentication in Insurance1)the intro page:

this page has the header and footer with the software name and other details contact detail etc that is common  in every website.we will have a small intro of the software and the functionalities it provide /then then will be login and register button or interface.2}the registeration page :in this page a form is open where we give the basic detail for making our account as2}Registration Page (Revised)

a) Government Registrar

Authentication: via MetaMask (to prove they are a valid authority).

Functions:Upload and digitally sign death certificates.Validate authenticity of certificates.

Smart Contract Functions:addCertificate(certHash, details) (only Govt wallet addresses can call this).



b) Insurance Company

Authentication: Simple registration/login (username, password, email, org details).

Functions:Receive death certificates from claimants.Query blockchain to check if certificate hash matches what Govt uploaded.Flag suspicious/mismatched certificates.

Smart Contract Functions:verifyCertificate(certHash) (read-only, no MetaMask needed).



c) Admin

Authentication: Simple login (username/password).

Functions:Add/remove insurance companies and government offices.Approve/reject registration requests.Monitor logs (optional).

Smart Contract Functions:addAuthority(address, role),removeAuthority(address)



d) Claimant

Authentication:Basic registration/login using name, email, phone, and password. Claimants do not interact directly with the blockchain; all blockchain verification is handled by the insurance company through the backend.

Functions:

Submit Claims: Enter claim details including certificate ID/hash and policy information. The backend stores the claim in MongoDB and coordinates verification with the blockchain.

Track Claim Status: After submission, claimants can log in and view the current status of their claim (pending, approved, rejected). Status updates are made in real time by the insurance company after verifying the certificate against the blockchain.

Smart Contract Functions:submitClaim(certHash, policyId) ,getClaimStatus(claimId)

⚡Implementation flow:

Govt logs in with MetaMask → uploads certificate → Blockchain stores hash.

Claimant files a claim (normal login).

Insurance company checks the claim → queries blockchain to verify certificate authenticity.

Admin only supervises (approves Insurance/Govt accounts).

3)government resistrar flowI register as a government registrar then I login with this I enter the death certificate .the algorithm check certain detail like name date of death and other necessary detail and generate the hashcode with sha 256. This code is then saved in ipfs or blockchain with metamsk authority of the registrar.1. Registration

You register as Government Registrar.

Your wallet (via MetaMask) gets linked → this proves you’re an authorized government entity.

2. Login

You log in with your MetaMask wallet → system recognizes your role.

3. Upload Certificate

Registrar enters death certificate details in a form (e.g., Name, DOB, Date of Death, Place, Hospital ID, etc.).

The system prepares the certificate data as JSON or structured text.

4. Generate Hash

The entered certificate details are run through SHA-256 → generates a unique hashcode.

This ensures that if even one field is altered later, the hash will not match.

5. Store Data (Blockchain + IPFS)

Upload the certificate file (PDF/JSON) to IPFS → get a CID (content ID).

Store the hash + IPFS CID + signer’s wallet address on blockchain.

This way, blockchain stores proof + signature, while IPFS stores the actual file.

4)databse flow-System Workflow

Registrar Onboarding

A Government Registrar registers and logs in using MetaMask.

The registrar’s wallet proves their authority on-chain.

Certificate Upload

Registrar uploads the death certificate file and metadata (name, DOB, DOD, place, hospital ID).

The file is stored in IPFS (returns a CID).

The certificate’s details are hashed and, along with CID + wallet + timestamp, stored on the blockchain.

Database Management (MongoDB)

MongoDB stores structured, queryable metadata for:

Government Registrars

Claimants

Insurance Companies

Certificates (with CID references)

This allows easy searching, filtering, and claim management while the blockchain+IPFS combo ensures authenticity.

Claim Submission & Verification

A claimant submits a claim by referencing the certificate.

Backend fetches the certificate CID from MongoDB, retrieves the file from IPFS, regenerates the hash, and compares it with the blockchain record.

If valid, the claim is marked as authentic in MongoDB and the claim status is updated.

Admin Control

The Admin manages MongoDB collections, with the ability to view, approve, or delete registered users and claims.

Blockchain + IPFS ensures tamper-proof authenticity, while MongoDB keeps the system user-friendly and efficient for queries.

Add an example schema for MongoDB, like:

{

  "certificateId": "CERT12345",

  "ipfsCid": "QmXyz123...",

  "hash": "9a5b9c1e...",

  "registrarWallet": "0x123...",

  "timestamp": "2025-10-05T10:00:00Z",

  "status": "verified"

}

Clarify data flow sequence, e.g.:

Upload -> Hash (SHA-256) -> IPFS (CID) -> Blockchain (CID+Hash) -> MongoDB (metadata)

Use ipfs with free and easy integration 



5)Claimant Page Flow

Login:

Claimant logs in using their credentials (username/email + password).

No blockchain interaction is needed here; the backend fetches data from MongoDB.

View Claim Status:

After login, the claimant can see:

Their submitted claim details (policy number, deceased name, date of death, etc.).

Verification status (pending, approved, rejected).

The status is updated in real time by the insurance company’s verification process.



6)Insurance Company Page Flow

Login:

Insurance company logs in with their credentials (username/email + password).

Upload & Verify Certificate:

They receive the death certificate from the claimant.

Upload the document on the interface.

Backend generates a SHA-256 hash of the uploaded certificate.

Backend compares the hash with the hash stored on the blockchain by the Government Registrar.

If the hash matches → certificate is authentic.

If the hash does not match → certificate is invalid or fraudulent.

Update Status:

Verification result is updated in MongoDB: the claims collection for that claimant.

This update automatically reflects in the claimant’s dashboard

7)Admin Page Flow

1. Login:

Admin logs in using username and password.

Authentication handled via backend (no blockchain needed).

2. Dashboard / Features:After login, the admin sees a dashboard with the following options:

Manage Users:

View all registered Government Registrars, Insurance Companies, and Claimants.

Approve or reject new registration requests for registrars and insurance companies.

Delete or deactivate any user if needed.



8)Error Handling and Security Mechanisms

1. Error Handling

Invalid Hash:If the hash generated by the insurance company for a submitted certificate does not match the hash on the blockchain:

The backend flags the certificate as “Invalid or Fraudulent”.

The claim status is updated in MongoDB as Rejected.

A notification is shown to both the claimant and the insurance company.

Failed Transactions:If a blockchain transaction fails (e.g., due to low gas or network issues), the backend catches the error and returns a user-friendly message.

File Upload Error:If IPFS upload fails, the backend retries once and then marks the upload as pending until reattempted.



2. Security Features

JWT Authentication:For normal logins (Claimant, Insurance, Admin), a JSON Web Token (JWT) is issued after successful login.

The JWT is stored securely in the client’s local storage.

Each API request includes the JWT in the header for authorization.

Wallet-Based Authentication (MetaMask):Government Registrars log in using their MetaMask wallet instead of a password.

On login, the wallet address is signed using a digital signature (via MetaMask).

The backend verifies this signature to confirm that the user owns that address.

This ensures only verified government wallets can upload certificates.

Data Integrity:

Blockchain ensures that once a certificate hash is added, it cannot be altered.

MongoDB stores metadata but does not modify the on-chain proof.



9)Claim Lifecycle Management

This section explains how a claim moves through different stages:

Claim Submission:

The claimant submits a claim form with certificate ID/hash and policy details.

The backend saves the claim in MongoDB with the status Pending.

Verification by Insurance Company:

The insurance company receives the claim from the backend dashboard.

They upload the death certificate file.

Backend generates a new SHA-256 hash and compares it with the on-chain hash stored by the government registrar.

If it matches → claim is Approved.

If it doesn’t → claim is Rejected.

Claim Status Update:

After verification, the backend updates the claim’s status in MongoDB.

The claimant’s dashboard automatically shows the updated status (using real-time API polling or WebSocket updates).

Admin Oversight:

The admin can view all claims, users, and logs through their dashboard.

Admin can delete or suspend fraudulent users or invalid claims

10)Integration and Communication Flow (Simplified)

This section explains how all parts of the system — Frontend, Backend, Blockchain, IPFS, and MongoDB — work together.



1. Frontend → Backend Flow

The frontend (built using React.js or any web framework) sends user requests to the backend (Node.js/Express) using REST APIs.

Example actions:

Register or login

Upload certificate

Submit or track claim

Verify certificate

Flow:

Frontend (React) → Backend (Node.js/Express)



2. Backend → Blockchain Flow

The backend uses Web3.js or Ethers.js to connect with the smart contract deployed on the blockchain (Ethereum/Polygon).

When the Government Registrar uploads a certificate:

The backend sends the certificate hash to the blockchain using addCertificate().

When the Insurance Company verifies:

The backend calls verifyCertificate() to check if the hash exists on the blockchain.

Flow:

Backend → Blockchain (Smart Contract)



3. Backend → IPFS Flow

The backend uploads the actual death certificate file (PDF/JSON) to IPFS.

IPFS returns a CID (Content ID), which is saved on the blockchain and in MongoDB.

This CID is a permanent, tamper-proof link to the file.

Flow:

Backend → IPFS → Return CID → Store CID on Blockchain + MongoDB



4. Backend → MongoDB Flow

All main data — user details, claims, and certificate info — are stored in MongoDB.

The blockchain stores only hashes and proofs, while MongoDB holds detailed records and claim statuses.

🧩11)Blockchain & Smart Contract Flow (Simplified)

Government Registrar

Logs in using MetaMask (wallet-based authentication).

Uploads death certificate → system generates a SHA-256 hash.

The hash + IPFS CID + wallet address + timestamp are stored on the blockchain using the smart contract function:👉addCertificate(certHash, details)

Smart Contract

Deployed on Ethereum or Polygon testnet.

Stores only minimal, tamper-proof data:

Certificate hash

Uploader’s (Registrar’s) wallet

Timestamp

IPFS file reference

Main functions:

addCertificate(certHash, details) – adds new certificate record (only by government).

verifyCertificate(certHash) – used by insurance companies to confirm authenticity.

addAuthority(address, role) – admin adds authorized registrars or insurers.

Insurance Company

Receives certificate from claimant and uploads it.

System generates its hash again and compares it with blockchain data via verifyCertificate().

If matched → authentic ✅ | If not → fraudulent ❌

Blockchain Role

Acts as a public ledger ensuring authenticity and preventing tampering.

Any mismatch in data → instantly detectable.

Since your project already connects to Ethereum via Web3.js,👉Use Infura for both blockchain RPC and IPFS storage — it keeps everything under one dashboard.







STEP 4: CONNECT ALL COMPONENTS

Component

URL / Integration

Frontend

Hosted on Vercel/Netlify

Backend

Hosted on Render/Railway

Blockchain

Deployed on Sepolia or Polygon Mumbai

IPFS

Via Pinata or Infura

Database

MongoDB Atlas



